1,Recently, for a variety of reasons ranging from environmental concerns to practicality electric cars have occupied a sort of niche in car sales. The range of cars is huge, ranging from luxury electric cars such as those made by Fisker to electric 16 wheelers set to be made by Tesla. For many, electric cars quite simply seem to be the cars of the future in an age where gas consumption and dirty emissions are increasingly feared. \nNow no car is a small purchase, but electric cars are on balance even larger investments, with some Tesla models selling for upwards of 100 thousand dollars. The issue them becomes affordability of electric cars. \nElectric cars in the status quo are given a government rebate of $7500 upon purchase (although this rebait’s imminent future is unknown because of America’s current political climate). This certainly helps affordability for Electric cars. \nHowever, when considering purchasing an electric car one must consider the reality of electric technology today. Electric technology is advancing exponentially, and the performance and affordability of electric cars is bound to follow the advances in technology. \nConsider this. Imagine buying an iPhone 7 except that instead of costing a few hundred dollars it was $100,000. Knowing that the phones technology would be obsolete within a year this would be an absolutely absurd purchase. \nThe same logic can be applied to electric cars. When technology advances very quickly an electric car purchased today is guaranteed to be technologically obsolete within a few years. Therefore, it is much smarter, if you set on driving an electric car to lease it, as to avoid deprecation and also have an up to date car. \nDepreciation has also been a major problem with electric cars. Take the 2012 Nissan Leaf, an electric car that would have sold for $30,000 new. That car would be worth $8,500 today. A similarly priced same year Nissan Altima that is gas powered would be worth $13,000 today. The difference is huge.\nUltimately, electric cars today are a shadow of the greatness they promise to bring tomorrow. Yes, in order to show support for electric cars people do have to purchase or lease them, but for your pocketbooks sake I would recommend leasing. 
2,Plea bargains are, paradoxically, one of the most prominent yet subtle components of the legal system. They influence a solid 90% of cases that pass through the criminal justice system, yet by nature, we hear little about them. Regardless, they have come to play a pivotal role in the trial process, for better or for worse.\nPlea bargains emerged in an effort to limit lengthy and expensive cases that were hindering the effectiveness of the legal system. Judges were experiencing “court clog”, where defendants could be forced to wait months for a trial since due to the time needed to resolve other complex cases. Thus, the plea bargain: prosecutors and defendants make a deal where the defendant agrees to confess (or “plead”) their guilt in exchange for reduced sentence or charges. For example, a man charged with murder confess their guilt and in turn receive a reduced sentence or be charged with a lesser crime.  The criminal justice system has used this tool since the 1960s in an effort to reduce costs and length of a trial. By having the defendant admit their guilt, courts can, in theory, dispose of cases more quickly and ensure efficiency in the trial process.\nThe use of plea bargains, however, has only harmed the trial process rather than facilitated it. First, it has exacerbated, not alleviated, the costs and length of trials. Second, it has unfairly targeted minorities and people of color and has increased racial bias in the criminal justice system. Third, and finally, plea bargains go against the very foundation of the supposed “justice” system by coercing innocent people to falsely admit guilt.\nThough the purpose of plea bargains is to speed up trials and make the legal system more efficient, their use has only compounded the problem of “clogged” courts. In theory, faster trials should mean less court clog, but the opposite has been proven to be true. The use of plea bargains has sped up convictions of crimes, most of which are smaller cases such drug misdemeanors and petty crimes. By having such a high turnover rate, prosecutors demonstrate their effectiveness in fighting crime. However, the incentive to prosecute more defendants has led to an increase in convictions for such lower-level crimes, fueling mass incarceration. As a result, prosecutors convict more and more people for relatively minor crimes instead of focusing on larger, white-collar cases, which has actually increased court clog. Rather than making the legal system more efficient, plea bargains have only aggravated the problem.\nIn addition to failing to fulfill their original purpose, plea bargains exacerbate existing inequalities within the legal system and society. Studies conducted in 2017 found that the deals offered to people of color are significantly worse than those offered to white people, and that white people are 74% more likely than black people to have charges completely dropped. The use of plea bargains has led to the overt display of racial bias and has pressured people of color to take harmful bargains simply because they save time. In a failed effort to increase efficiency, the legal system has merely provided an avenue for discrimination against people of color. The criminal justice system has allowed for unequal treatment, the antithesis of “justice” for all.\nThe deterioration of justice is compounded by the coercive practices used in plea bargains. The definition of plea bargaining may lead one to believe that the agreement reached is fair and in the defendant’s interest. By providing an opportunity for compromise, the justice system, in theory, is expanding the freedom of all parties involved. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The bargain reached is more often than not a result of coercion and strong-arming the defendant into pleading guilty. Prosecutors often threaten defendants with higher charges and greater punishments if they do not plead guilty - essentially a legal form of torture. This has led to many innocents pleading guilty out of fear of the potential of an enormously large punishment. In fact, scholars have argued that the coercive nature of plea bargaining is in violation of many constitutional amendments, such as the right to trial by jury. In effect, plea bargaining has foiled the original purpose of the criminal justice system; rather than finding the truth and protecting rights, courts convict innocents and violate constitutional amendments.\nPlea bargains have gone against their original purpose of improving court efficiency, and have instead slowed down our courts and led to discrimination and coercion. Many scholars have proposed possible reforms and even abolition of the practice. In any case, there must be a change in the use of plea bargains that have undermined the “justice” in the criminal justice system.
3,Two years ago, Congress entertained the idea to have women register for the possibility of a draft, the same way that every man from the ages of 18 to 26 has to register for the possibility of a draft. Two months later, Congress dropped the idea and indefinitely shelved any future plans to amend this decision. \nBut before we delve into the implications that this legislation and its outcome has on the fight for gender equality and the deeper analysis of what the draft would mean in the context of military reform, there are a few questions to clarify:\nWhat is a draft? To put it simply, if you’re male, sometime around  your 18th birthday, you receive a letter from the United States Government. After overcoming your initial panic thinking that Big Brother has finally looked at your search history and is coming to throw you in jail, you grab a pen from the floor and violently stab the envelope. You quickly get through several lengthy paragraphs of nonsense before looking up in a grimace thinking, Big Brother wants me to go to war? Yes. Well, kind of. Not really. That’s what the papers say though, they tell you that you have to register for “possible military service.” But how possible is “possible?” Good question. In this day and age, where the entire United States Army is made up of volunteers, chances are you won’t be drafted, not even if we have another world war (prays constantly to Hogwarts for protection.) So, why do we even want to draft women if we don’t need it?\nNow here’s where we get to the implications of the draft on gender equality. Passing this legislation probably won’t mean much more in the context of the strength of the military than me having to stab my own envelope at 18 along with a few million other women, and we probably won’t have to lift up a weapon if we don’t want to. But the impacts stretch further than any meaningless government envelope forcing you to fill out two hours worth of paperwork, further than just another stance for gender equality. This legislation has the power to be more than just a symbolic testament to the fight for gender equality, it has the power to revolutionize the way women are treated in the military, in terms of the the daily harassment and the fallout of what happens when a woman tries to fight back.\nBut how? All it does is have women also sign up for possible (but not really) military service. Yes. Exactly. That’s all it needs to do. Just the possibility of a draft of both men and women is enough for the army to make changes in their policies against  sexual harassment in the army, a problem that we all can see growing but can’t (or won’t) do anything to fix. Just the possibility of having more women in the army is enough ammunition for the public, for congress, for female soldiers to push back against the deeply misogynistic and backwards policy that exists in the military for the prosecution of heinous and disturbing abuse. And right now, there is little that the public or female soldiers themselves can do about the abuse that plagues the military because the people that are responsible upholding the law and administering justice for the people that protect our country don’t follow through on this responsibility. The military has a unique court system in which justice is not their priority, unity is. And to the military, unity does not include women. The misogyny is so deeply rooted, causing the Pentagon’s courts to ignore or shutdown cases that threatens the hierarchy of males that exists in our protection. The way that the Pentagon operates around justice is interesting… to say the least. They have in place the defendant’s superior to serve as a jury and makes the decision of whether charges should be brought against the defendant, even though he/she has no legal training. Yes, you read this right. The defendant’s own superior is responsible for deciding whether or not the defendant gets pressed with charges. I don’t need to explain what happens in this situation. The notion that female soldiers do not deserve equal respect as male soldiers that shadows every base camp, court, and training center is only given more power under this system, and the is nothing we can do about it. Except this draft.\nUm what? Everything I’ve read so far tells me that the military is a terrible place for women. Why do we want to send more women there? That’s the argument that everyone who opposes the draft espouses, that forcing possible military service on more women will only increase the amount of women that are raped and abused without justice. Change before draft, they say. Not only is this argument completely wrong, but it mistakenly places the assumption that the military will change its decade long policy of marginalizing sexual assault and objectifying the women that they work with. They won’t change, not unless they are forced to by changing circumstances, for example, more women, more women who won’t be touched and will stand up and fight for their rights. \nAs of April 2017, the Pew Research Center reports show that women make up roughly 14% of the Army. That statistic maintains pretty steadily through the Navy, Air force, and Marines with little variation. 14%. That’s it. With that number, it’s no wonder that there is no representation for women in Pentagon courts. “Change before draft” will never happen, it’s lost cause and is how we have let the problem grow so big. But we can still fix it, by adding more women into the military’s consideration, more women that the military has to accommodate for legally. More women means more voices to bring assault to the center stage and end it once and for all. There’s still time. \nThanks for reading! Feel free to message us if you want to discuss this topic more!
4,The old belief that ‘Only Congress has the power to declare war’ has been undermined as a presidential grab for power threatens the balance of power in our government. In the wake of the September 11th attacks on our nation, the office of the president has snatched broad and unyielding power over our troops and US Foreign policy via two main pieces of legislation: The “Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) and Title 3093.\nThe AUMF was designed to allow the president to pursue all terrorists and terrorist organizations related to the 9/11 attacks. The law is very straightforward and short: “the President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.” It seems reasonable and rational, but presidential lawyers have been able to exploit its vague language. Phrases such as “all necessary and appropriate force” are open to interpretation and have been utilized to justify 37  interventions in areas like Niger and Chad - countries who were not related to the 9/11 attacks according to govTrack. But the more damning piece of legislation is Title 3093. Even more vague than its predecessor, title 3093 gives the president the ability to execute covert operations if “the President determines such an action is important to the national security of the United States”.\nThese documents give the president power to intervene and start a military conflict in any area in the world whenever. Many claim that US military intervention seems to have benefits, such as strengthening US hegemony, protecting US interests, and paving a way towards peace, but the empirical evidence paints a different story. Bergen finds that historically US presence has increased violence by 265%. Problematically, he sees that in the case of Iraq, US intervention increased attacks by 607%. But this begs the question, why does intervention provoke conflict?\nFirst, he finds that military intervention likely triggers a “gloves off” mentality that dramatically escalates the violence on both sides”. That's why Sousa of the International Studies Association finds that military intervention increases conflict intensity by 16%. Secondly, US intervention crafts an anti-american sentiment. When citizens see a foreign power militarily ‘invading’ their country it sparks a nationalist response, harkening back to the anti-colonial sentiments of the 19th century. It radicalizes citizens, as Pape finds that intervention has caused 95% of all suicide terrorism.\nBut all hope is not lost. The War powers act of  1973 states that the President must tell Congress within 48 hours if he sends armed forces anywhere, and Congress must give approval for the military to stay there for more than 90 days. However, unfortunately the executive branch has yet to acknowledge the constitutionality of this act, as all former commander in chiefs have simply ignored it. \nThanks for reading!  Message us if you would like to engage in further discourse or to report inaccuracies.
5,Is the Illuminati real? No. There is no all-knowing power that loves triangles and watches you turn around dark corners. There may be, however, justification for the worry that someone is monitoring you on the internet and social media. Big name companies do this and are able to provide the information we want without us even knowing we wanted it – but they are not the Illuminati. Simply, companies know what we think because they are able to control how and what we think through the use of propaganda. They know what we think because this is how they have programmed us to. \nEven Disney, likely the most well-known household name, has taken part in this corruption of society since WWII where you can see the posters (on right) depicting Disney’s negative feelings towards Germany and the Nazis. They even cast their influence over the social epidemic of the time which was the stabilization of jobs – in both cases, the propaganda was used to help the society of the time. \nHowever, propaganda has also been used in children’s shows and pop culture to create not so positive influences on our society and to regularize traumatic events. Typically frowned upon, this topic is rarely touched due to its sensitivities – this makes it a perfect fit for Niche News, though I suggest if you have any sensitivities to the topic then to please end your reading now as it can be quite emotional. I would also like to take the time now to state that I take no formal claim as to whether or not the images truly depicted the incidents before they occurred/were the direct cause of such tragedies; I do, however, acknowledge the images’ existence and the eeriness they hold in the truth of their being. \n“What am I referring to?” you may be wondering. Well, I am referring to the unnumbered amount of pre-9/11 photos in existence and would like to raise the question as to whether they influenced the attackers or normalized the idea of a plane striking a building\nThis image was released on April 27, 2001, barely 5 months before the terrorist attack. The image of a burning building parallels the fall of the Twin Towers – this cartoon may have inspired the attack and its supporters. \nAnother example is from 1983, nearly 20 years before the attack. This image obtains a striking resemblance – almost exact resemblance – to the photos of 9/11. How is it that this author, Jose Borja, foresaw this event? Did he have a time machine? Not likely. Did corporal geniuses pay Borja to create it so that we would begin to think of the awful tragedy an entire two decades earlier? Perhaps. Did terrorists base their idea this story in their planning of the attack? Unknown. \nAnother example, a Pakistan International Airline (PIA) advertisement from 1979. A horrifically looming image that suggests the intersection of a plane and two large towers over two full decades previous to the event. Same as before, should we take this as mere coincidence or is there something greater going on at hands? Whether that be a warning, a normalization, or an inspiration to the final attack. ‘\nNow you may be thinking, “Okay, so what? 9/11 was over ten years ago and this doesn’t happen anymore, the world is a lot safer now” … But is it? Or does enhanced security only limit your abilities? Does the constant use of gadgets steal normalize more tragedies and inspire more horrors and affect our mental states?\nContinuously, as seen in the 9/11 examples, modern technology enormous influence over our population and how they standardize violence and weapons. Many claim that video games and violent toys brainwash young mind and have led to increased violence at young ages which can be viewed in the variety of shootings and school violence that have taken place. \nIn this day and age, the group of profiting individuals has more access than ever to our lives and how we live them. Big name corporations such as Apple have the ability to control our phones and access to all data in them – including face recognition and fingerprints. Additionally, Siri listens to everything you say, as does the Amazon Alexa; these AI systems claim to record your conversation in order to “know more about you” and become better able to know your needs when giving directions. Similarly, have you ever noticed that your phone maps have figured out where you live based on your typical location? As well as knows your work/school based upon where you go and for what times of the day? Some may find this convenient and technologically advanced, others hopefully agree with me that it’s just downright creepy. Even though we have grown accustomed to it, it is this shrug-off attitude towards of our lack of privacy which makes us so susceptible to being brainwashed by large organizations. As we do not object to the intrusion of these companies into our personal lives we invite them to normalize more ideas and actions in our minds, and consequently they yield increasing influence over us.\nIf you still question the possible existence of the Illuminati then I understand why, though it is more reasonable to acknowledge the threatening power worldwide companies obtain and how they are accountable for controlling what we see and knowing what we think. Watch what you say around Siri. 
6,Whether it was your childhood or just one year ago, the retailer “Toys R Us” has been around since 1957, and continued to go strong until today. This store served as a paradise for many children, with all the supplies it sold ranging from toys of all sorts, video games, clothing, merchandise, and many more fun items. As a child, I always remember begging my parents to drive me over to check out what they had to offer. Walking in, the store always gave a vibrant, attractive color scheme to welcome all visitors. And once you enter, there are so many sections to visit you would not know where to start. A paradise full of toys… So what caused the downfall of this wonderful store?\nThere were two factors:\n1. Online shopping websites such as Amazon and eBay easily outsell Toys R Us.  The convenience of having the requested item delivered to your doorstep with a small shipping fee is much easier than driving out to a nearby Toys R Us, which were mostly located far away from local neighborhoods. Toys R Us  stores are congregated near high traffic areas, such as highways, not the small neighborhoods where it really counts - and thats precisely what companies like Amazon took advantage of. \n2. One word: Debt . Debt stopped Toys R Us from making the necessary investments that are needed in stores. And from there, nothing but an unpleasant shopping experience would result and doom the chain.  In addition, competitors such as Walmart raised wages, while Toys R Us were having trouble attracting visitors. Shopping for Toys R Us items online has already been disabled since March 2018. However, it is not too late to visit your local Toys R Us to haul some memorable souvenirs of the store before it closes for good. Our childhood store shall never be forgotten.
7,Tibet is a mountainous region of western China. According to China, the land has been Chinese since the 13th century. However, periodically during this period, Tibet has exercised independence from China. For example, between 1368 and 1644, and more recently between 1912 and 1951 China exercised no control over Tibet. According to The New York Times, “Tibet was not “Chinese” until Mao Zedong’s armies marched in and made it so” in 1951 (New York Times). The most recent Chinese occupation of Tibet, beginning in 1951, has been one characterized by oppression and human rights abuses. This oppression has mainly been focused on repressing the practice of Tibetan Buddhism and on maintaining an economic and political grip on Tibet. This Chinese control threatens to destroy Tibet economically and culturally (UMASS). In response to this oppression, a Tibetan independence movement has developed, with the split goal of Tibetan autonomy or independence (NYT, China Warns). However, the question of Tibetan control is problematic because Chinese occupation of Tibet instigates conflict with India, and has historically been the instigator of wars between China and India (DNA). This escalates the question of Tibetan independence from a local conflict to a matter of global security that threatens to instigate a much larger war. \nChina’s oppression of Buddhists in Tibet is the primary motive behind the independence movement. Nearly 97% of Tibetans are Buddhist (IMB), yet, since taking control of Tibet, China has pulled down more than 99% of Tibetan monasteries, and imposed control over the religion. Current president Xi Jinping has taken a hard stance on religion and has further allowed oppression through “canceling previously permitted festivals, increasing intrusive restrictions on private religious practice, and more proactively manipulating Tibetan Buddhist doctrine and the selection of religious leaders”(Central Tibetan Administration). In recent years 100,000 Tibetan refugees have fled Tibet to India to escape oppression and live with the Dalai Lama, their spiritual leader (UMASS).  When Tibetans responded to this oppression in 2008 with massive revolts the Chinese government responded with “an intensive crackdown” (NEWINT), killing 200 Tibetans, injuring 1,300 and detaining 7000(NYT). This Tibetan religious discontent mixed with the oppressive strongman politics of China create an environment fostering pro-Tibetan revolutionaries.\nA Chinese occupation of Tibet enables China to stockpile weapons on its border with India, creating massive tensions in international politics. In 1962 India went to war with China over Tibet in the Sino-Indian war (DNA). India was defeated in this war, setting the stage for modern Chinese occupation of Tibet. However, the war failed to resolve the territorial dispute between the two nations. China has used their occupation of Tibet to systematically construct road and rail networks along the Chinese Indian border that tilt the balance of forces in China’s favor. India has responded with increased armament on their side of the border. China has also used the excuse of putting down rebellion to position huge amounts of troops in Tibet, troops that could potentially be used to fight China. Further escalating the conflict is “China’s reported deployment in Tibet of nuclear missiles targeting India”(FP). This increased armament on both sides of the Indian Chinese border has ultimately resulted in a Sino-Indian arms race. This is particularly problematic because when a mature conflict between two nations becomes an arms race the probability of war increases by 331%(Political Science). As The Huffington Post explains “Even a small border clash between these two assertive giants could light the fuse of a broad and very frightening conflict” that would create “yet more conflict in Central Asia and the Gulf”(HP). Ultimately, the Sino Indian arms race resulting from Chinese control of Tibet threatens to create a massive international conflict.\nThe best solution to this problem is ultimately the diplomatic creation of an independent and open door Tibet. Any effort to make Tibet independent has to be diplomatic because a military effort will inevitably fail. The Chinese government feels that “if they don’t completely crush any form of protest they will lose control of Tibetans, said Executive Director of International Campaign for Tibet”(ICT). This Chinese sentiment dooms any Tibetan revolts against the massive Chinese army. In order for the Tibet movement to be successful, it would have to be overwhelmingly supported by the international community. China is incredibly unlikely to let Tibet be independent unless it is in their best interest to. This would be achieved through economic and political coercion from the entire international community. The new independent Tibet would also need to have open, free market borders for there to be any chance of independence. “Tibet’s waters are the lifeblood of the most populous continent on the planet, Asia. Hundreds of millions depend [...] on water flowing from Tibet”(PE). In the status quo, Tibetan water flows openly into China. As Planet Experts explains “The key to environmental protection is empowering communities to protect it. And that is the key problem in Tibet, where locals have no power”(PE). The Chinese fear is therefore that by giving Tibetans power over their own water the Tibetans would stop the flow of Tibetan water into China. This would be massively destructive however because “Forty-six percent of the world’s population depends upon rivers originating in Tibet”(Future Directions). China would crush any Tibetan independence movement if it could not ensure that it would still have access to the Tibetan resources. The Chinese governments resistance will be the primary force working against an independent Tibet but by using diplomacy and by guaranteeing China protected water rights Tibet could ultimately gain its independence. \nTibetan people have been oppressed by the Chinese government since 1951. The Chinese Government continues to repress Tibetan Buddhism through strongman politics and force while at the same time exploiting Tibet for military advantage over India. As long as China is in control of Tibet there can be no solution to Sino Indian relations. Chinese occupation threatens to instigate a war between India and Indian allies and China and Chinese allies. This war would be massively destructive but could be avoided if Tibet was given its independence, thereby moving Chinese aggression away from the Chinese-Indian border. Tibetan independence could only succeed as an international diplomatic effort because of China’s unwillingness to give in to Tibetan resistance. An independent Tibet could also never exist if it threatens China’s lifeline water supply. Yet, despite these potential problems with an independent Tibet ultimately solving the Tibetan question will decrease international tension and protect human rights in Tibet. 
8,Anthony Kennedy, who was appointed as Justice of the Supreme Court by President Ronald Reagan, has been working on the Court for thirty years. A week ago, Kennedy has announced that he will be retiring at the end of July. \nKennedy was known as the ‘swing vote’ of the Supreme Court, who often bridged the gap between the court’s liberals and conservatives. As swing vote, Kennedy was able to look at both sides and come up with a reasonable agreement. Kennedy has changed America through many vital decisions such as the right to abortion, banning the death penalty for juveniles, and legalizing gay marriage. \nSupreme Court judges are able to keep their position until they die. Why did Kennedy decide to step down? Kennedy stated that his decision to step down was based on a “deep desire to spend more time with his family”. By retiring, Kennedy also gives an opportunity for another qualified justice to take his position, rather than cling onto it forever. \nThe White House states: “Justice Kennedy has been a tireless voice for individual rights and the Founders' enduring vision of limited government. His words have left an indelible mark not only on this generation, but on the fabric of American history." Kennedy will officially leave office on July 31. 